---
layout: posts
title:  "Product Rating vs Returns"
date:   2024-08-10
tags: Excel
author_profile: true
author: Chris Brockett
categories: work
highlight_home: true
tagline: "Sql Excel Google Sheets"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/sset1.jpg
  teaser: /assets/images/sset1.jpg
  
  caption: "Photo credit: Chris Brockett"
description: A mix of Sql and Excel
---

## Executive Summary
To explore if there is a correlation between product ratings and return rates, we analyzed the available data but were unable to see an impact on returns based on the ratings given by customers. The ratings only deviated by 3%, and products with mediocre ratings had the highest sales. This suggests that factors other than quality may influence customer ratings. 

We would need to work with the business/it and capture verbatims, shipping delays and follow up with customers to get a better understanding of what is important to the customer.

Check out the excel version [Project][Projects]

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vS5hJ1X57oGWZWlp8BAoUR3eEeI9wRqSuaWvGl9b0Zqz5FzAQe_2uVx0rtzelP1Sg/pubhtml?widget=true&amp;headers=false" width="900" height="400"></iframe>

## Findings
- Correlation Between Ratings and Return Rates:
  - The ratings of products did not show a significant impact on return rates.
  - Ratings varied within a small range (3%), making it difficult to draw a definitive conclusion.
  - Products with mediocre ratings had the highest sales, which was unexpected.
- Review vs. Transaction Rate:
  - Only 7% of transactions had reviews.
  - This percentage is satisfactory when compared to other similar surveys.

## Follow up
- Survey Capture Verification:
  - Investigate how surveys are captured and address any anomalies (e.g., the outlier where there was a survey but no sale).
  - Are we capturing verbatims.
- Leadership Engagement:
  - Engage with leadership to understand if there are current initiatives or budgets allocated to driving survey rates.
- Survey Promotion:
  - Ensure survey capture methods are robust.
  - Gain a deeper understanding of how surveys are promoted to potentially enhance survey response rates.

## Final
- If funds are currently being used to improve ratings, consider reallocating these resources to drive survey participation or add additional data points to increase insights.
- Increasing the survey take rate should help in reducing return rates for categories lacking reviews and potentially boost sales.

## Learnings
- How to embed worksheet into github
- How to do various different functions in google sheets

## SQL
Check out the SQL tab to see some of the sql I used to pull in the data.  

[Projects]: https://1drv.ms/x/s!Agou-xgvW5RZxBepQE0xpTCSkim7?e=YeJur1