---
layout: posts
title:  "Agile"
date:   2024-08-15
categories: article
highlight_home: true
tags: education
description: agile methodology
header:
 overlay_image: /assets/images/sset1.jpg
 teaser: /assets/images/sset1.jpg
 caption: "photo credit: chris brockett"
---


# Agile Methodology

Agile methodology is a way of making software that’s flexible and team-focused. It helps teams work better and deliver what customers really want.

## Key Ideas:
1. **Keep Customers Happy**: Always aim to deliver what the customer wants, quickly and often.
2. **Welcome Changes**: If something needs to change, it’s no big deal. Adjust and keep going.
    - While no big deal should have fence posts and a defined end to project.  Minor changes are no problem but something big might need to create a new project so that it doesnt derail current project.
3. **Work in Short Cycles**: Break the work into small chunks (called iterations or sprints) that last 1-4 weeks.
4. **Teamwork**: Work closely with your team and talk a lot to make sure everyone’s on the same page.
- Team can be as small as 1 person
5. **Show Progress**: Always have something to show that works, even if it’s just a small part.
6. **Keep It Simple**: Do only what’s necessary to get the job done well.
7. **Self-Organizing**: The team decides the best way to do the work.
8. **Regular Check-Ins**: Frequently look at how things are going and make improvements.

## Agile Frameworks:
- **Scrum**: Work in short sprints, with roles like Scrum Master (coach) and Product Owner (the one who knows what’s needed). Have daily check-ins and review progress regularly.
- **Kanban**: Use a board to track tasks (like a to-do list) and limit how many tasks are in progress at once.
- **XP (Extreme Programming)**: Focus on writing high-quality code with practices like pair programming (two people work on one task) and test-driven development (write tests before the code).

## Why It's Good:
- **Flexible**: Can quickly adapt to changes.
- **Better Quality**: Continuous testing and feedback improve the product.
- **Customer Focused**: Regular updates and feedback ensure it meets customer needs.
- **Team Spirit**: Promotes a collaborative and supportive work environment.

## Challenges:
- **Change is Hard**: It can be tough for some people to get used to this new way of working.
- **Big Teams**: Managing large teams with Agile can be tricky.

In short, Agile helps teams create better software by working together closely, being flexible, and always focusing on what the customer really needs.

## Learn More
- [Agile Manifesto](https://agilemanifesto.org/)
- [Scrum Guide](https://scrumguides.org/)
- [Kanban](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban)
- [Extreme Programming (XP)](http://www.extremeprogramming.org/)